[docs] Describe t.dispatchEvent (#6130)
DevExpress/testcafe: docs/articles/documentation/reference/test-api/testcontroller/dispatchEvent.md

---
layout: docs
title: t.dispatchEvent Method
permalink: /documentation/reference/test-api/testcontroller/dispatchevent.html
---
# t.dispatchEvent Method

```text

> t.dispatchEvent(target, eventName[, options]) → this | Promise<any>

Author: > TestCafe fires [DOM events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event) to imitate user actions on the webpage. For example, when you call [t.click](./click.md), TestCafe raises `mousedown`, `mouseup` and `click` (and possibly other events if necessary) in succession.
>
> With `t.dispatchEvent` you can fire separate events on the webpage. This can be useful to imitate actions TestCafe does not support out-of-the-box.

> t.dispatchEvent(target, eventName[, options]) → this | Promise<any>

Reviewer: You change the sense:

Use the `t.dispatchEvnet` if you need to raise the single customized event or emulate actions what is not supported TestCafe now.

With t.dispatchEvent you can fire separate events on the webpage. This can be useful to imitate actions TestCafe does not support out-of-the-box.

> t.dispatchEvent(target, eventName[, options]) → this | Promise<any>

Author: > Use t.dispatchEvent to raise customized events or to imitate actions TestCafe does not support out-of-the-box.

```

> > Important! The `t.dispatchEvent` method is not supported in Internet Explorer 11 and earlier.

Author: ```suggestion
> Important! The `t.dispatchEvent` method is not supported in Internet Explorer 11.
```

Fires a DOM event on the `target` element.

Parameter              | Type                                              | Description
---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------
`target`               | Function &#124; String &#124; Selector &#124; Snapshot &#124; Promise | Identifies the event target. See [Select Target Elements](#select-target-elements).

> `eventName`            | String                                            | Event name. See [MDN Event Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events)

Reviewer 2: It's difficult to provide full list of events, since we can dispatch event with custom name.
Probably, we can make a list of EventsConstructors which are detected automatically based on event name

> `eventName`            | String                                            | Event name. See [MDN Event Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events)

Reviewer: The main idea - I should understand how to specify the `eventName` parameter.

> we can make a list of EventsConstructors which are detected automatically based on event name
From the point of view of a customer, it doesn't matter to me which event constructor is used

What about such describing style?
```js
A list of supported event names
You can specify any event name supported by browser. 
The most frequently used event names are
* mouse events (`mouseup`, `mousedown`, `click`, `dbclick`, `mousemove`, `mouseover`  `mouseleave`)
* keyboaed events (....)
* focus events
* input events
*....

Also if you use the CustomEvent constructor, you can specify an appropriate event name.

> `eventName`            | String                                            | Event name. See [MDN Event Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events)

Reviewer 2: > You can specify any event name supported by browser. 
You can specify any event name even if it does not supported by browser. Event name is just a name. You can dispatch event with name `foo`: `t.dispatchEvent('foo')`. It's valid way. However, in this case TestCafe will not recognize which event constructor should be used, so the CustomEvent constructor will be used.

> `eventName`            | String                                            | Event name. See [MDN Event Reference](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Events)

Author: I see your point. I'll rewrite the piece with this in mind

> `options`&#160;*(optional)* | Object                                       | A set of action parameters. See [Options](#options).

Author: ```suggestion
`options`&#160;*(optional)* | Object                                       | A set of event parameters. See [Options](#options).
```

## Options

Use the `options` object to specify parameters for events fired with `t.dispatchEvent`.

All DOM events support the following `options` properties:

* [Event Interface Properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event#properties)

Unless otherwise specified, events have `bubbles` and `cancelable` options set to `true`.

> Depending on the `eventName` parameter, a different constructor is called for an event and different sets of additional `options` are available.

Reviewer 2: I think that somewhere we need to add information about EventConstructors which are detected automatically by event name:
- MouseEvent (also for drag events)
- PointerEvent
- KeyboardEvent
- InputEvent
- FocusEvent
If we cannot detect event constructor automatically, then we use the CustomEvent constructor

You can explicitly set a constructor for an event. See [Explicit Constructor Assignment](#explicit-constructor-assignment).

> ### Mouse Events

Reviewer 2: FYI for Drag events we alse use MouseEvent constructor as the most appropriate

> You can use `t.dispatchEvent` to trigger a mouse event (like [mousedown](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/mousedown_event) or [dblclick](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/dblclick_event)).

Author: ```suggestion
You can use `t.dispatchEvent` to trigger a mouse event.
```

An example below fires the [mousedown](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/mousedown_event) and [mouseup](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/mouseup_event) events to simulate the user holding down a left click on a button for 5 seconds.

```js
import { Selector } from 'testcafe';

fixture`Trigger Mouse Events`
    .page('www.example.com');

test('Left-click a button for 5 seconds', async t => {
    const target = Selector('#target');

    await t
        .dispatchEvent(target, 'mousedown')
        .wait(5000)
        .dispatchEvent(target, 'mouseup');
});
```

Mouse events support the following `options` properties:

* [Event Properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event#properties)
* [UIEvent Properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/UIEvent#properties)

> * [MouseEvent Properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MouseEvent#properties)

Reviewer: These links are not useful.

You can just specify the all options that are can be passed to the `MouseEvent` class constructor.
https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/MouseEvent/MouseEvent

---
layout: docs
title: t.dispatchEvent Method
permalink: /documentation/reference/test-api/testcontroller/dispatchevent.html
---
# t.dispatchEvent Method

```text
t.dispatchEvent(target, eventName[, options]) → this | Promise<any>
```

> Important! The `t.dispatchEvent` method is not supported in Internet Explorer 11.

Fires a DOM event on the `target` element.

Parameter              | Type                                              | Description
---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- | ----------------
`target`               | Function &#124; String &#124; Selector &#124; Snapshot &#124; Promise | Identifies the event target. See [Select Target Elements](#select-target-elements).
`eventName`            | String                                            | Event name. See [Event Types](#event-types)
`options`&#160;*(optional)* | Object                                       | A set of event parameters. See [Options](#options).

> TestCafe fires [DOM events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event) to imitate user actions on the webpage. For example, when you call [t.click](./click.md), TestCafe raises [mousedown](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/mousedown_event), [mouseup](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/mouseup_event) and [click](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/click_event) (and possibly other events if necessary) in succession.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TestCafe fires [DOM events](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event) to imitate user actions on the webpage. For example, when you call [t.click](./click.md), TestCafe raises [mousedown](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/mousedown_event), [mouseup](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/mouseup_event), and [click](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/click_event) (and possibly other events if necessary) in succession.
```

Depending on the `eventName` parameter, a different constructor is called for an event and different sets of additional `options` are available. See [Event Types](#event-types).

You can explicitly set a constructor for an event. See [Explicit Constructor Assignment](#explicit-constructor-assignment).

### Explicit Constructor Assignment

You can explicitly tell TestCafe which event constructor to use. Pass the `eventConstructor` property to `options` (for example, `eventConstructor: 'TouchEvent'`).

The following example fires a [non-cancelable](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event/cancelable), [non-bubbling](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Event/bubbles) `TouchEvent` on `target`.

```js
import { Selector } from 'testcafe';

fixture`Dispatch Events`
    .page('./index.html');

test('Dispatch a TouchEvent', async t => {
    const target    = Selector('#target');

    const eventArgs = {
        cancelable: false,
        bubbles:    false
    };

    const options = Object.assign(
        { eventConstructor: 'TouchEvent' },
        eventArgs
    );

    await t
        .dispatchEvent(target, 'touchstart', options)
});
```

> Because `eventConstructor: 'TouchEvent'` is passed to `options`, TestCafe calls the `TouchEvent` constructor to create the event. You can use [TouchEvent Properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TouchEvent#properties) in this event's `options`.

Reviewer 3: Did you mean "from this event's options"?

Author: No, more like:

> You can use TouchEvent Properties as `options` for this event.

Reviewer 3: yes that works

Author: ```suggestion
Because `eventConstructor: 'TouchEvent'` is passed to `options`, TestCafe calls the `TouchEvent` constructor to create the event. You can use [TouchEvent Properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/TouchEvent#properties) as `options` for this event.
```
